## JWT Generator

The JWT token includes three parts separated by a dot:

- Header
  - Usually includes only two pieces of information: `alg`, which says what the algorithm used to generate the signature, and `typ`, which indicates what's the token type (in this case, JWT).
- Payload
  - Where the data is stored. Usually contains `iat` (the date when the token was created), and the `exp` (the token's expiration date) by default. Then, it contains the data you inserted in the JWT, such as `sub` (convention for the subscriber, like an identifier), and anything else, like 'name', 'age', 'salary', or anything.
- Signature
  - Generated based on a string with the **Header**, **Payload**, and the **Secret Key**, then a hash is generated by the algorithm specified in the header `alg` prop. Before generating the signature, both the Header and Payload are encoded using Base64Url.

Example.:

```
eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJzdWIiOiIxMjM0NTY3ODkwIiwibmFtZSI6IkpvaG4gRG9lIiwiaWF0IjoxNTE2MjM5MDIyfQ.SflKxwRJSMeKKF2QT4fwpMeJf36POk6yJV_adQssw5c
```

The value for 'header':

```json
{
  "alg": "HS256",
  "typ": "JWT"
}
```

The value for 'payload':

```json
{
  "sub": "1234567890",
  "name": "John Doe",
  "iat": 1516239022
}
```

The signature is a hash of the header, payload, and secret.

#### Configuration

- `yarn install`
- Rename the `.env.example` to `.env` and add your secure secret key.

#### Running

Use the `sign` function to create your JWT. You can pass some custom values for 'exp', such as:

- 1d, 2d, 3d, ..., XXd (in days)
- 1w, 2w, 3w, ..., XXw (in weeks)
- 1m, 2m, 3m, ..., XXm (in months (30 days base))
- 1y, 2y, 3y, ..., XXy (in years (365 days base))

Then pass your 'secret' and your payload data inside 'data'.

Ex.:

```js
const token = sign({
  data: {
    sub: "ggonpereira@gmail.com",
    balance: 15500,
    age: 20,
  },
  exp: "5d",
  secret: "I'm the batman",
});
```

Then, you can call `verify` to verify the generated JWT token.
It can generate two possible errors:

- **Invalid JWT token:** If the internally calculated JWT signature is different than the sent JWT signature.
- **Expired token:** If the token 'exp' date is past from the current date.

If none of these errors occur, you will receive your payload as a response.
This will contain the 'iat' (the date when the token was created), the 'exp' (the token's expiration date), and your token data, in the example, your balance, age, and sub.

By default, the token signature is generated using HASH265, probably I'll be adding more hash algorithms in the future...

That's all, folks!
